2023 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX 03 - 05 November 2023 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 32 Date 03 November 2023 Time 18:45 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 23 & 24) and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 15:17 Session Qualifying Fact Car 63 was driving slowly in the pit exit and was not as far to the left as possible. Infringement Breaches of Article 33.4 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations and Article 12.2.1 i) of the International Sporting Code and non-compliance with Race Director’s Event Note (item 14, document 4). Decision Drop of 2 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates. Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 63 (George Russell), the team representative and reviewed in-car video evidence. In order to avoid situations like the ones that occurred in Mexico, the Race Director’s Event Notes for this event contained a specific clause (item 14) stipulating that it was permitted to go slow in the pit exit to create a gap before crossing the SC2 line, however, by doing so, a driver must stay as far to the left as possible to allow other drivers to pass on the right side. RUS was exiting the pits, preparing for an out lap. RUS went slow to create a gap for a clear lap, but did not manage to stay completely to the left. As a result, following car(s) were not able to overtake, as intended by the Race Director’s instructions. This clearly violates the wording and the spirit of item 14 of the Race Director’s Event Notes. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. The StewardsGerd Ennser Loïc Bacquelaine Vitantonio Liuzzi Luciano Burti