2023 BRITISH GRAND PRIX 07 - 09 July 2023 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 11 Date 07 July 2023 Time 12:10 The Stewards, having received a report from the Media Delegate, summoned (document 9) and heard from team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Fact Late attendance of the Thursday Press Conference. Infringement Breach of Article 19.1 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision Team reprimand. Reason The Stewards received a report from the Media Delegate that the the driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), was late for the Thursday Press Conference. The Stewards heard from the team representative and determined that the driver was indeed late for the Press Conference. The team representative noted that his driver’s schedule was controlled by the team, and given that this was his home race, the schedule was extremely busy. In addition, it is difficult for Hamilton to move through the paddock. While the Stewards understand this to be the case, it is also true that this is an activity required by the regulations, that late attendance is disruptive to the press conference, and that there is significant interest by the media in talking to the drivers who’s access is limited. The Stewards considered that these activities on Thursday of the race weekend are different that pre-race activities which have an effect on the flow of the competition and can provide an advantage to a driver’s preparation. Activities on Thursday are generally organized by the teams and the drivers follow the instructions of their team coordinators. Therefore, the Stewards determined that the most appropriate penalty was to the team rather than to the driver. As some leeway has been given previously the Stewards consider a Reprimand to the team to be appropriate, with the warning that further penalties may be considered in case of repetition. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. The StewardsDecisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. Tim Mayer Felix Holter Derek Warwick Nicky Moffitt