2023 UNITED STATES GRAND PRIX 20 - 22 October 2023 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 64 Date 22 October 2023 Time 19:16 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 17:28 Session Race Fact The rear skid in the area defined in the Technical Delegate’s report was outside the thresholds outlined in Article 3.5.9 e) of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations. Infringement Breach of Article 3.5.9 e) of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations. Decision Car 44 is disqualified from the Race (Article 12.4.1.m of the FIA International Sporting Code). The other competitors move up in the classification. Reason The Stewards heard from the team representatives of Car 44, the Technical Delegate, the FIA Single Seater Director and the FIA Single Seater Technical Director. During the hearing the team acknowledged that the measurement performed by the FIA Technical Team was correct and stated that the high wear on the skid pads was probably a result of the unique combination of the bumpy track and the Sprint race schedule that minimized the time to set up and check the car before the race. The Stewards note that the onus is on the competitor to ensure that the car is in compliance with the regulations at all times during an event. In this particular case, the rear skid in the area defined in the Technical Delegate’s report was outside of the thresholds outlined in Article 3.5.9 e) of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations, which includes a tolerance for wear. Therefore, the standard penalty for a breach of the Technical Regulations is imposed. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. The StewardsFelix Holter Andrew Mallalieu Derek Warwick Dennis Dean