2023 Q ATAR GRAND PRIX 06 - 08 October 2023 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 87 Date 08 October 2023 Time 23:25 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 82) and heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 20:06 Session Race Fact The driver of Car 44 crossed the live track to return to the pit lane. Infringement Breach of Article 26.7 b) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision Reprimand (Non-driving) This is the driver’s 1st reprimand of the season. The driver is fined €50,000, €25,000 of which is suspended for the remainder of the 2023 season on condition that there is no further breach of similar nature. Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car ​​44 ( Lewis Hamilton), team representative and reviewed video evidence. After crashing out of the race in Lap 1, the driver of Car 44 abandoned his car in the gravel and ran back to the pits. He thereby crossed the track that was live at this time and reached the inside edge of the track just seconds before Car 63 arrived at high speed after exiting the pits. He then continued to walk alongside the track until finally exiting the track. During the hearing the driver of Car 44 was very apologetic and realized that the situation could have been very dangerous for him as well as the drivers approaching. The Stewards reinforced the fact that crossing a live track can cause extremely dangerous situations and the drivers have to be very cautious about it. In addition to imposing a significant fine (which is suspended in parts), the Stewards also reprimand the driver bearing in mind that receiving a certain number of reprimands during a season will draw a significant driving penalty in accordance with Article 18.2 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. The StewardsDecisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. Felix Holter Matteo Perini Danny Sullivan David Domingo