From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 TeamDocument 21 Date 19 November 2022 Time 17:22 2022 ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX 18 - 20 November 2022 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 19) and heard from the driver and team representatives, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Time 14:39 Session Practice 3 Fact Car 44 overtook Car 20 when the red light was displayed. Offence Breach of Appendix L Ch IV Art 1, Appendix H 2.5.4.1.b of the FIA International Sporting Code. Decision No penalty is applied. Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton) and the team representative. The Stewards reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, telemetry, team radio and in-car video. There is no dispute that Car 44 passed Car 20 directly after the track was placed in a Red Flag condition. The driver of Car 44 stated that he was on a fast lap, he saw the Red Light, immediately completely lifted the throttle and applied the brakes, whilst checking his mirrors for cars following in close proximity. He stated that he had, in doing so, gone past Car 20. The Stewards took note of the precedent in relation to the 2021 Dutch Grand Prix (Max Verstappen), where no action was taken against the driver under similar but not identical circumstances. The telemetry evidence was sourced directly from the live data available to the FIA not from any evidence provided by the team. The telemetry data clearly shows the following; 1. That immediately when the red light was displayed, the driver lifted throttle 100% 2. That immediately when the red light was displayed, the driver applied firm braking pressure. 3. The speed of Car 44 at this point was 288 km/h. (Car 20 had a speed of 126 km/h at this point – a delta of 162 km/h). The StewardsIt is our conclusion that the driver of Car 44 took every reasonable action to comply with the regulations in that he immediately reduced speed in a safe manner at the earliest opportunity upon the first indication of the red light. Notwithstanding, technically this is still a breach of Art 2.5.4.1 b of Cpt IV of Appendix H of the International Sporting Code, however he could not avoid overtaking Car 20 in this case and therefore the Stewards DETERMINE to apply no penalty. It is noted the there was no breach of Article 37.6 of the Formula 1 Sporting Regulations. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Garry Connelly Felix Holter Vitantonio Liuzzi Mohamed Al Hashmi