From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 TeamDocument 38 Date 06 December 2020 Time 23:59 2020 SAKHIR GRAND PRIX 3 - 6 December 2020 The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 34), summoned (document 35) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Time 21:16 Session Race Fact Incorrect use of tyres Offence Breach of Article 24.2 a) and 24.3 e) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision A fine of €20,000 is imposed on the competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 team (see reasons below). Reason The Stewards heard from the Mr Ron Meadows (team representative) and Mr Nikolas Tombazis (FIA Formula One Technical Delegate). As described in the latter’s report (document 34) Car 63 was fitted with front tyres that were allocated to Car 77. This was caused by a radio communications technical issue wherein the pit wall’s communication to the pit crew that Car 63 was entering the pits prior to (and not after) Car 77, failed to be received by the crew of Car 63 because at the same time, the driver of Car 63 transmitted over the top of that message. This resulted in the front tyres of Car 77 accidentally going onto Car 63. (The cars were “double stacked” at the time.) This is clearly a breach of the regulations and would normally involve a sporting penalty up to Disqualification. However, in this case there are mitigating circumstances, additional to the radio issue referred to above. Firstly, the team rectified the problem within 1 lap. This involved Car 63 making another pit stop, thus dropping it further down the classification. Secondly, Car 77 made a pit stop to change tyres only to find that the front tyres to be fitted to it, were on Car 63, so was sent out after considerable delay, with the tyres that were on Car 77 prior to the pit stop. This also impacted the final classification of Car 77. Thirdly, although this type of infringement is not catered for under the “3 lap tolerance” referred to in the second paragraph of Article 24.4 b) (which currently only refers to the use of tyres of differing specifications), we consider it to be similar in nature. However, the responsibility to fit tyres in compliance with the regulations, still rests with The Stewardsany team and thus a penalty is considered as being required. It is recommended that the FIA consider amending Article 24.4 b) to accommodate this type of breach when it is rectified without delay. It is noted that this type of breach has not previously been experienced in Formula One. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Article 10.1.1 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Garry Connelly Loic Bacquelaine Mika Salo Mazen Al Hilli