2024 DUTCH GRAND PRIX 23 - 25 August 2024 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 38 Date 24 August 2024 Time 19:48 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 31 & 32) and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 15:09 Session Qualifying Fact Car 44 unnecessarily impeded Car 11 in turn 9. Infringement Breach of Article 37.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision Drop of 3 grid positions for the next Race in which the driver participates. Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 11 (Sergio Perez), the driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), team representatives and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, timing, telemetry, team radio and in-car video evidence. The driver of Car 44, being on an in lap, was informed by the team that Car 11 was approaching on a fast lap when he entered Turn 8. He then drove off line at the exit of Turn 8 with the intention to give way for Car 11. However, when Car 11 arrived, Car 44 had already entered Turn 9 and drove back towards the racing line at the exit of Turn 9, thereby clearly impeding Car 11. The Stewards determine that, whilst there has been appropriate warning by the team and albeit the driver tried to move out of the way, he could have slowed down more in order not to impede the other car and therefore consider the impeding to be unnecessary in the sense of the regulations. Therefore a grid drop is applied in line with previous decisions. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. The StewardsFelix Holter Matteo Perini Johnny Herbert Arie Kroeze