2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX 01 - 03 November 2024 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 85 Date 03 November 2024 Time 19:29 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 79) and heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 13:13 Session Race Fact The driver left the grid although the aborted start signal was given. Infringement Breach of Article 47.1 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision Reprimand (Driving). The driver is fined €5,000. Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative and reviewed video evidence. The FIA Formula One Race Director initiated the Aborted Start procedure indicating that the drivers should not leave the grid. This message was necessary as there was a car off track in Turn 4 (STR) that needed to be recovered. Although the signal was appropriately given the light panel illuminated as prescribed, and the teams notified by the messaging system, the driver left the grid and proceeded on a lap that he assumed to be an extra formation lap. As the driver was on the front row of the grid this triggered following drivers to take similar action. At some point the Race Director realizing that for practical reasons all cars would now need to do an extra formation lap gave an instruction to the teams for all cars to proceed and return to the grid to follow the correct aborted start procedure. In the opinion of the stewards the driver RUS precipitated the action of the drivers on the grid directly behind him. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. The StewardsGerd Ennser Andrew Mallalieu Johnny Herbert Luciano Burti