2024 AZERBAIJAN GRAND PRIX 13 - 15 September 2024 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 43 Date 14 September 2024 Time 21:22 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 39) and heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 16:10 Session Qualifying Fact Alleged failing to slow under yellow flags. Infringement Breach of Appendix H, Article 2.5.5 b) of the International Sporting Code and non- compliance with Race Director’s Event Notes (item 1, document 21). Decision Reprimand (Driving). Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 63 (George Russell), team representative and reviewed positioning/marshalling system data, video, telemetry and in-car video evidence. This was a very similar case to the decision of this panel of Stewards regarding Charles Leclerc (document 29) with some important differences. Sainz ran into the runoff at Turn 2. Russell was the next car on track and was fully committed to his braking, and unlike Leclerc, was already turning into the corner, when the yellow flag was displayed on the far right of the runoff. The Stewards consider that there was no reasonable way for Russell to have seen that flag and even if he had, he could not have changed his braking. Once he rounded the corner, Russell accelerated normally. Unlike Leclerc, however, the illuminated green light panel between turn 2 and turn 3, was a significant distance further down the track and harder to see at the point of acceleration than in the case of Leclerc. But, ultimately, Russell did see the green. Russell also did not get the benefit of the DRS in that zone because it was automatically switched off, slowing his lap. The Stewards pointed out in the Leclerc decision many mitigating factors. In this case, the Stewards believe there is further mitigation. However, it is a matter of safety that the drivers understand that when they have seen a car in a runoff, and green light indicates that they are inside of a yellow sector and that some indication, such as a lift or at least limited acceleration, acknowledging that other issues can occur within a yellow zone. Thus, in this limited set of circumstances, in particular that the yellow flag could not have been seen, the Stewards order a Driving Reprimand rather than a more serious The Stewardspenalty. The Stewards recommend that this matter be clarified in the next Drivers’ meeting and note that these penalties should not represent a binding precedent. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. Tim Mayer Matteo Perini Johnny Herbert Danil Solomin