2024 JAPANESE GRAND PRIX 05 - 07 April 2024 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 34 Date 06 April 2024 Time 17:27 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (documents 29 & 30) and heard from the drivers and team representatives, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 15:05 Session Qualifying Fact Unsafe release of Car 63. Infringement Breach of Article 34.14 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision The competitor (Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team) is fined €5,000. Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 63 (George Russell), the driver of Car 81 (Oscar Piastri), team representatives and reviewed external and in-car video evidence. The driver of Car 63 stated that on receiving the release signal from his mechanic, he had intended to drive down the working lane, however he saw the mechanic from Car 44 in his peripheral vision and in order to avoid him, he claimed he had to move into the fast lane. He was not able to see the approach of Car 81. The driver of Car 81 stated that he had to take avoiding action by steering away from the approaching Car 63. Examination of the pit lane video shows that the mechanic of Car 63 who released the car did not look down to pit lane to see if it was clear. Even though the stated intention of the team was for Car 63 to move down the working lane then blend in prior to the pit exit, it is still the responsibility of the team to release the car in a safe manner and good practice would dictate that prior to the car being released, the pit lanes (both fast and working) should be checked for approaching vehicles. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. The StewardsGarry Connelly Loïc Bacquelaine Enrique Bernoldi Kazuhiro Tsuge