2024 BELGIAN GRAND PRIX 26 - 28 July 2024 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 44 Date 28 July 2024 Time 18:48 The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 42), summoned (document 43) and heard from the team representative, the FIA Technical Delegate, the FIA Single Seater Director and the FIA Single Seater Technical Director, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 63 - George Russell Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 17:50 Session Race Fact Weight of Car 63 (796.5 kg) was below the minimum weight required (798.0 kg). Infringement Breach of Article 4.1 of the FIA Formula One Technical Regulations. Decision Car 63 is disqualified from the Race classification. All other drivers move up in the classification. Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 63 (George Russell), the FIA Technical Delegate, the FIA Single Seater Director and the FIA Single Seater Technical Director. Car 63 was weighed on the FIA inside and outside scales with both scales showing the same result of 796.5 kg. The calibration of both scales was confirmed and witnessed by the competitor. During the hearing the team representative confirmed that the measurement is correct and that all required procedures were performed correctly. The team also acknowledged that there were no mitigating circumstances and that it was a genuine error by the team. The Stewards determine that Article 4.1 of the FIA Formula 1 Technical Regulations has been breached and therefore the standard penalty for such an infringement needs to be applied. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. The StewardsFelix Holter Mathieu Remmerie Enrique Bernoldi Loïc Bacquelaine