2024 SÃO PAULO GRAND PRIX 01 - 03 November 2024 From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 TeamDocument 81 Date 03 November 2024 Time 19:00 The Stewards, having received a report from the Technical Delegate (document 66), summoned (document 70) and heard from the team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team Time 13:13 Session Race Fact Tyre pressures were adjusted (pressure released) with wheels already fitted to the car in contravention to TD003. Infringement Breach of Article 30.5 a) of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision The competitor (Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team) is fined €5,000. Reason The Stewards heard from the team representative of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), the FIA Technical Delegate, a member of his team and the FIA Single Seater Director. After the race start was aborted the 10 minute notice was immediately given for the new start. Given the layout of the circuit and the access point to the grid from the pit lane the time period for the team to get to the grid was extended. The gate to access the grid was not immediately opened. The FIA accepted that given this short notice it was extremely difficult if not impossible for the teams to follow the procedure prescribed in the technical directive. The FIA Technical Delegate stipulated that the tyre pressures while having been adjusted by the team was within the allowed parameters. Given the unusual circumstances surrounding the compressed time table, aborted start, the grid access logistics and given the stipulation from the Technical Delegate that the tyre pressures were within the correct parameters, the Stewards determine that a fine for a breach of procedure is appropriate in this case. Normally a breach of this nature, within a competitive session would carry a sporting penalty but it is not appropriate in this case. However, this decision should not be considered as a precedent for any similar breach in the future as the circumstances are considered unique. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. The StewardsDecisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented. Gerd Ennser Andrew Mallalieu Johnny Herbert Luciano Burti