From The Stewards To The Team Manager, Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 TeamDocument 21 Date 04 December 2021 Time 20:02 2021 SAUDI ARABIAN GRAND PRIX 2 - 5 December 2021 The Stewards, having received a report from the Race Director, summoned (document 19) and heard from the driver and team representative, have considered the following matter and determine the following: No / Driver 44 - Lewis Hamilton Competitor Mercedes-AMG Petronas F1 Team Time 17:39 Session Practice 3 Fact Unnecessarily impeding of Car 9 by Car 44 in Turn 8 Offence Breach of Article 31.5 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations. Decision Reprimand (Driving) (This is the 2nd Reprimand of the season) A fine of €25,000 is imposed on the Team Reason The Stewards heard from the driver of Car 44 (Lewis Hamilton), team representative and examined video and team radio evidence. The driver was given a 10 second warning that Car 9 was approaching when he was at Turn 2. Due to a failure in communication by the Team he was not given another warning until Car 9 was alongside him. The Stewards accept that this circuit presents challenges for drivers in relation to using their mirrors as the method of determining the approach of overtaking cars. Although it is the driver’s ultimate responsibility to avoid impeding, for this circuit the driver must depend upon the Team to communicate efficiently. This did not happen in this case and accordingly the penalty for the Competitor is imposed. The Stewards take this opportunity to emphasise that due to the nature of this circuit it is essential that teams communicate effectively and proactively with their drivers. This is not to be taken as a precedent for other circuits. Competitors are reminded that they have the right to appeal certain decisions of the Stewards, in accordance with Article 15 of the FIA International Sporting Code and Chapter 4 of the FIA Judicial and Disciplinary Rules, within the applicable time limits. The StewardsGarry Connelly Silvia Bellot Vitantonio Liuzzi Hassan AlAbdali